So let's talk about what I think that
is the favorite collection type of
a .NET developer, the list.
The list is ubiquitous in .NET collections.
Let me show you what it looks like.
So we talked about boxes of strings and
boxes of int, but in reality,
you probably wouldn't
define code like this.
This is no better than setting a variable.
But you would, and you often do, define
a list of strings or a list of integers.
And you could say,
I wanna add things to this list.
I wanna add Spencer to this list,
bring him on the bus.
In fact, let's name this bus.
I wanna bring him on the bus.
Let's bring him on the bus.
George wants to go on the bus.
Let's bring George.
Can int go on the bus?
Int can't go on the bus.
Compiler won't let int go on the bus.
Which is right, right?
This is the most common class for
collections in .NET in
terms of the use by developers,
this and array, but
mainly list people love to materialize
things as lists for some reason.
This is good, because you get
the flexibility of a generic type,
so you can create lists of strings or
lists of other objects, and
then prevent other objects
from joining in on the party.
We want Spencer and George on the bus.
We don't want integers on the bus.
You can also define lists ahead of time,
same as you can arrays using
what's called collection initializer
syntax in newer versions of C sharp,
but this is the way that they've
kind of been defined in previous
years with curly braces and
using the lists constructor.
So there's a few methods on list.
There's actually a bunch, but the ones
that you need to know about are Add,
Remove, RemoveAt, AddRange,
which will allow you to add
a collection of strings, add range.
So we would add Mary and Ann, right?
So that would give you
an IEnumerable of string
that would add two more elements to
that array or sorry to that list.
And under the hood,
a list just takes an array and
just has a fixed amount of elements in it,
and then resizes it when it needs to.
So pretty cool.
You can browse the source code yourself.
There's not a lot of magic behind it.
It's just .NET making things
as convenient as it can for you.
Couple of things you
should know about lists.
There's a for each method on the list.
Do not use it, and
the reason that you shouldn't use it
is because it shouldn't be there.
[LAUGH] In my strong opinion, this, to me,
is just not a way there's
a construct in the language for
doing ForEach and it is called
the ForEach loop, it is more ubiquitous.
Are you gonna break
the universe if you do this?
No, it's just not a good habit to do so.
And Microsoft has said just
you shouldn't use this.
And list is very powerful and it is
versatile, but .NET devs love to use list
sometimes to the point of absurdity
especially when you're defining a method
that has a specific behavior and you need
to operate on a collection of objects.
And that developer decides that that
collection of objects must be a list.
So, it must be a list ahead of time.
It might have probably been more
suitable to define that method
to take in IEnumerable instead.
That would have probably
been more practical.
There's a couple of other collection
types, the most important one, we already
talked about array, the hash set is like a
list, but you can't add duplicates to it.
So if you go here,
you can't add two spencers to the bus.
You also notice that it
does not have AddRange.
You can only add one thing at a time,
little bit of a quirk, but
what this will inevitably do is
we'll just skip adding this, and
it will just end up with a collection
of one it will silently not work.
So it will continue executing.
Dictionary is probably
the one that I use the most,
next to array list and IEnumerable,
dictionary is my heart and
soul and that basically allows you to say,
I declare it as dict and
then I say new dictionary and
then I say I just want a string and
I wanna be able to look
up integers with strings.
So what I can do is,
I can set the value of this dictionary.
So I can say that if I'm looking
up the element at section asdf,
I want to get the value of three, but I'm
using them with, just very basic types.
You can use these with classes as well,
right?
So you get a lot of flexibility.
Dictionary is one of the collections that
I use to usually sometimes track state or
or make sure that if I have a value and
I need to cache it, I might cache it very
quickly inside of a dictionary and then
look it up later to see if it's there.
And if it's not, I'll add it so
I can refer back to it, right?
You don't want to look up
the same record 1000 times
when you can just look
it up once in a loop.
So a dictionary is a good
construct to do that in.
There are a few others.
Immutable array is one
that I use a ton as well.
I will often on most collection methods,
actually all of them that implement
IEnumerable, there is a ToList method.
So you can materialize that to a list,
it's called materializing.
It will create a new other list or
in this case another bus.
I should call this var.
Other bus that will also create a list.
You could also do ToArray and
that will create an array.
You can also do ToImmutableArray
which is something that I
do a lot because oftentimes you can
mutate arrays, you can mutate lists.
I believe in immutable objects because
it keeps my programming consistent.
I want to make sure that people can't edit
the things that I'm creating a lot of
the times.
So I'll create an immutable array so
that way they can't actually
modify contents of that array.
So, a couple of others, Queue and
stack, which are last in first out and
first in first out collections I,
in practice,
almost never use them, but
I know that they exist in case I ever do,
in case I ever need
that kind of construct.
So yeah, here's my spicy opinion.
I use immutable array a ton,
I use dictionary a lot, and
if I need to add or remove elements,
I'll use a list most of the time.